README.md, before:

# **The RESTful API Modeling Language (RAML) Spec**

A RAML Spec exposes consumer's personal information, their purchasing history and shopping cart's product catalog data.

## **Use Case Coverage** 

This API is covering below use cases:-
1. A consumer may periodically (every 5 minutes) consume the API to enable it (the consumer) to maintain a copy of the provider API's customers (the API represents the system of record)

2. A mobile application used by customer service representatives that uses the API to retrieve and update the customers details
 
3. Simple extension of the API to support future resources such as orders and products

## **How API works**

RAML spec provides customer records - personal information, their order history as well as lists product catalog available in the shop. This API has a parent class: [Shop API](https://github.com/himb0/shop/blob/master/shop.raml) which stores shop attributes and uses its child class attributes to display further information about customer's ordering history and the range of products in the catalog.

1. Customer - [https://github.com/himb0/shop/blob/master/customer.raml](https://github.com/himb0/shop/blob/master/customer.raml) 
2. Order - [https://github.com/himb0/shop/blob/master/Order.raml](https://github.com/himb0/shop/blob/master/Order.raml)
3. Product - [https://github.com/himb0/shop/blob/master/product.raml](https://github.com/himb0/shop/blob/master/product.raml)
4. OrderDetails - [https://github.com/himb0/shop/blob/master/orderdetail.raml](https://github.com/himb0/shop/blob/master/orderdetail.raml)

[RAML Spec](https://www.lucidchart.com/documents/view/8de59b44-6450-46a2-ac11-64c8a59cb8e7)

The idea is to provide customer sensitive information privately and in a secure channel to avoid any eavesdropping or masquerading of customer assets. This API requires OAUTH2 authentication information to service their requesting clients. In events of failure, API returns 

> 401 - Bad or expired token 
> 403 - Bad oauth request (wrong consumer key, bad nonce, expired timestamp..}.

The code for implementation of authentication is taken from, [raml.org/raml-1.0](https://raml.org/developers/whats-new-raml-10). This API  allows below methods: 

> get

> post

> put

> delete

> patch/trace/connection: deemed invalid requests and return, 405 - A request method is not supported for the requested resource.

**Header Details**
> [hasHeader] - The header name, defined as trait for re-using in GET, POST, PUT, DELETE methods. 
> Authorization: OAUTH2 authentication base 64 encoded string

> Tenant-Id: Tenant id for multi-tenant environments

> Content-type: json

> x-ratelimit-limit: the rate limit ceiling for that given endpoint. Each client is provided a 5 min window

> x-ratelimit-remaining: the number of requests left for the 5 minute window

> x-ratelimit-reset: the remaining window before the rate limit resets, in UTC epoch seconds

> User-Agent: 
Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 6.1; Win64; x64; rv:47.0)Gecko/20100101 Firefox/47.0
Mozilla/5.0 (X11; Linux x86_64) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko)                   
Chrome/51.0.2704.103 Safari/537.36; Mozilla/5.0 (X11; Linux x86_64) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/51.0.2704.103 Safari/537.36; Mozilla/5.0 (X11; Linux x86_64) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko)
Chrome/51.0.2704.106 Safari/537.36 OPR/38.0.2220.41
Mozilla/5.0 (iPhone; CPU iPhone OS 10_3_1 like Mac OS X) AppleWebKit/603.1.30 (KHTML, like Gecko) Version/10.0 Mobile/14E304 Safari/602.1
Mozilla/5.0 (compatible; MSIE 9.0; Windows Phone OS 7.5; Trident/5.0 EMobile/9.0)

> Accept-Language: en-US;en-UK

> Connection: Keep-Alive

> Accept-Encoding: gzip

## **Use Case 1**

### **List customers**
This use case provides consumer's personal information, products, and order history to the requesting external entities. The API fulfills the client's request through, 
> GET: provides customer, order, product, order information of the shop.
This call is OAUTH2 secure, displays header information through trait: hasHeader. 

The GET method incorporates error handling through network layer,

> 400: The server cannot or will not process the request due to an apparent client error (e.g., malformed request syntax, size too large, invalid request message framing, or deceptive request routing).

> 408: The server timed out waiting for the request. According to HTTP specifications: "The client did not produce a request within the time that the server was prepared to wait. The client MAY repeat the       request without modifications at any later time"

> 423: The resource that is being accessed is locked

> 429: The user has sent too many requests in a given amount of time. Request limit per 5 minutes.
            
> 500: A generic error message, given when an unexpected condition was encountered and no more specific message is suitable.

> 503: The server is currently unavailable (because it is overloaded or down for maintenance). Generally, this is a temporary state.
              
> 504: The server was acting as a gateway or proxy and did not receive a timely response from the upstream server.
            
> 200: Request successful for listing the customer records as collection.

Besides servicing client with regards to customer information, it further provides order, and product details which will be discussed in Use Case 3. Rate limiting is incorporated at the network layer to handle congestion, and service clients in a distributed environment giving clients equal priority in round robin fashion. 

### **Create a new customer**
This use case creates a new customer(s) in a collection.
> POST: creates a customer record with first name, last name, and address
This call is OAUTH2 secure, displays header information through trait: hasHeader. 

The POST method incorporates error handling through network layer,

> 400: The server cannot or will not process the request due to an apparent client error (e.g., malformed request syntax, size too large, invalid request message framing, or deceptive request routing).

> 408: The server timed out waiting for the request. According to HTTP specifications: "The client did not produce a request within the time that the server was prepared to wait. The client MAY repeat the       request without modifications at any later time"

> 423: The resource that is being accessed is locked

> 429: The user has sent too many requests in a given amount of time. Request limit per 5 minutes.
            
> 500: A generic error message, given when an unexpected condition was encountered and no more specific message is suitable.

> 503: The server is currently unavailable (because it is overloaded or down for maintenance). Generally, this is a temporary state.
              
> 504: The server was acting as a gateway or proxy and did not receive a timely response from the upstream server.
            
> 201: Request successful for creating a new list of customer(s) in a collection.

Rate limiting is incorporated at the network layer to handle congestion, and service clients in a distributed environment giving clients equal priority in round robin fashion. 

### **Update a customer**
This use case fetches the customer id from the client and updates a customer information partially/completely in the collection. 

> PUT: updates a customer record with first name, last name, and address
This call is OAUTH2 secure, displays header information through trait: hasHeader. 

The PUT method incorporates error handling through network layer,

> 400: The server cannot or will not process the request due to an apparent client error (e.g., malformed request syntax, size too large, invalid request message framing, or deceptive request routing).

> 408: The server timed out waiting for the request. According to HTTP specifications: "The client did not produce a request within the time that the server was prepared to wait. The client MAY repeat the       request without modifications at any later time".

> 422: The request was well-formed but was unable to be followed due to semantic errors. 

> 423: The resource that is being accessed is locked.

> 429: The user has sent too many requests in a given amount of time. Request limit per 5 minutes.
            
> 500: A generic error message, given when an unexpected condition was encountered and no more specific message is suitable.

> 503: The server is currently unavailable (because it is overloaded or down for maintenance). Generally, this is a temporary state.
              
> 504: The server was acting as a gateway or proxy and did not receive a timely response from the upstream server.
            
> 200: Request successful for updating customer(s) in the collection.

Rate limiting is incorporated at the network layer to handle congestion, and service clients in a distributed environment giving clients equal priority in round robin fashion. 

### **Delete a customer**
This use case fetches the customer id from the client and deletes a customer record from the collection.

> DELETE: delete a customer record
This call is OAUTH2 secure, displays header information through trait: hasHeader. 

The PUT method incorporates error handling through network layer,

> 400: The server cannot or will not process the request due to an apparent client error (e.g., malformed request syntax, size too large, invalid request message framing, or deceptive request routing).

> 408: The server timed out waiting for the request. According to HTTP specifications: "The client did not produce a request within the time that the server was prepared to wait. The client MAY repeat the       request without modifications at any later time".

> 423: The resource that is being accessed is locked.

> 429: The user has sent too many requests in a given amount of time. Request limit per 5 minutes.
            
> 500: A generic error message, given when an unexpected condition was encountered and no more specific message is suitable.

> 503: The server is currently unavailable (because it is overloaded or down for maintenance). Generally, this is a temporary state.
              
> 504: The server was acting as a gateway or proxy and did not receive a timely response from the upstream server.
            
> 204: Request successful for deleting customer(s) from the collection.

Rate limiting is incorporated at the network layer to handle congestion, and service clients in a distributed environment giving clients equal priority in round robin fashion. 

## **Use Case 2**
This use case fulfills the requests from mobile applications. The RAML spec is agnostic to web and mobile applications. A careful consideration is made to incorporate error handling at the network layer to fulfill mobile app requests due to performance constraints. The following items listed below are carefully considered to fulfill this use case. 

> HTTP Error codes [w3.org/Protocols](https://www.w3.org/Protocols/rfc2616/rfc2616-sec10.html)

> HTTP Header [w3.org/Protocols/HTTP](https://www.w3.org/Protocols/HTTP/HTRESP.html)

After detailed analysis, below header information is added.

### **UserAgent**
The header information contains information that allows the network protocol peers to identify the application type, operating system, software vendor or software version of the requesting software user agent.  

UserAgent information server will be able to fulfill clients providing below info:

  > Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 6.1; Win64; x64; rv:47.0)Gecko/20100101 Firefox/47.0

  > Mozilla/5.0 (X11; Linux x86_64) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko)   

  > Chrome/51.0.2704.103 Safari/537.36; Mozilla/5.0 (X11; Linux x86_64) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) 

  > Chrome/51.0.2704.103 Safari/537.36; Mozilla/5.0 (X11; Linux x86_64) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko)

  > Chrome/51.0.2704.106 Safari/537.36 OPR/38.0.2220.41

  > Mozilla/5.0 (iPhone; CPU iPhone OS 10_3_1 like Mac OS X) AppleWebKit/603.1.30 (KHTML, like Gecko)
  Version/10.0 Mobile/14E304 Safari/602.1

  > Mozilla/5.0 (compatible; MSIE 9.0; Windows Phone OS 7.5; Trident/5.0 EMobile/9.0)

### **Connection: Keep-Alive**
The Connection general header controls whether or not the network connection stays open after the current transaction finishes. If the value sent is keep-alive, the connection is persistent and not closed, allowing for subsequent requests to the same client. However, this is supported only within network using HTTP 1.1 standard. 

The connection between server and client will not expire once a 3 way handshake is established between the two entities making the connection persistent. 

## **Use Case 3**
This use case fulfills the further requirement of extending the API to products and orders. Shop is the parent RAML which uses libraries customer, order, product, and order details as collections. This design pattern was adopted to incorporate a basic data modelling mechanism which might be implemented on the backend system. 

- A shop object is generated whenever customer invokes a shopping basket and can exist without Customer/order/product/order objects.

- A customer object has a many to one relationship with shop. Every customer is attached with shopping id.

- A order object has a many to one relationship with shop. Every order is attached with shopping id.

- A product object has a many to one relationship with shop. Every product is attached with shopping id. 

- A order details object has a many to one relationship with shop, customer, order, and product objects. This object stores the purchasing history of a customer.

[RAML Spec](https://www.lucidchart.com/documents/view/8de59b44-6450-46a2-ac11-64c8a59cb8e7)

## **Design Considerations**

- Security - Incorporation of oauth2 which is a clean separation of roles between the server responsible for handling OAuth requests and the server handling user authorization. 
- Re-usability - The idea of reusability is a fundamental principle followed while designing Shop RAML spec. I have used `collection` `resourceTypes:` `traits` `uses` to incorporate this feature. 
- Modularity - Modules: shop, customer, order, product, and order details are independent in nature which promotes less coupling and high cohension. 
- Standard practices of RAML - Use of inheritance through `uses` `collections` and promote re-usabiliy through `traits` `resourceTypes`
- Performance - `Connection:Keep-Alive` ensures the HTTP connection is persistent once a 3 way handshake is established with the server and the servicing client. HTTP/1.1 is being used at network layer which keeps the connection persistent, improves connection speeds with time and bandwidth, allows clients to send multiple requests before waiting for response and sends data explicitly to its servicing client.  
- Error handling - Extensive use of error handling in network layer to cover all the possible edge cases. However, the API does not cover data related exceptions, and errors and expects them to be handled by the application and presentation layer. 
- Data quality - This is not considered in this API as it is more of implementation detail and should be added in the back-end and front-end systems. Though data semantics is being checked with error code `422`

## **Reference**

1. Tools used - Github Desktop, Atom with API Workbench, pros.io, LucidChart
2. RAML 1.0 - [apiworkbench.com/docs/](http://apiworkbench.com/docs/)
3. HTTP error codes and header info - 
> [w3.org/Protocols/HTTP](https://www.w3.org/Protocols/HTTP/HTRESP.html)

> [w3.org/Protocols](https://www.w3.org/Protocols/rfc2616/rfc2616-sec10.html)

> [wikipedia/](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_HTTP_status_codes)

Commit message:

object to micro-service
Its a service model and not a class!

README.md, after:

# **The RESTful API Modeling Language (RAML) Spec**

A RAML Spec exposes consumer's personal information, their purchasing history and shopping cart's product catalog data.

## **Use Case Coverage** 

This API is covering below use cases:-
1. A consumer may periodically (every 5 minutes) consume the API to enable it (the consumer) to maintain a copy of the provider API's customers (the API represents the system of record)

2. A mobile application used by customer service representatives that uses the API to retrieve and update the customers details
 
3. Simple extension of the API to support future resources such as orders and products

## **How API works**

RAML spec provides customer records - personal information, their order history as well as lists product catalog available in the shop. This API has a parent service: [Shop API](https://github.com/himb0/shop/blob/master/shop.raml) which stores shop attributes and uses its micro-services attributes to display further information about customer's ordering history and the range of products in the catalog.

1. Customer - [https://github.com/himb0/shop/blob/master/customer.raml](https://github.com/himb0/shop/blob/master/customer.raml) 
2. Order - [https://github.com/himb0/shop/blob/master/Order.raml](https://github.com/himb0/shop/blob/master/Order.raml)
3. Product - [https://github.com/himb0/shop/blob/master/product.raml](https://github.com/himb0/shop/blob/master/product.raml)
4. OrderDetails - [https://github.com/himb0/shop/blob/master/orderdetail.raml](https://github.com/himb0/shop/blob/master/orderdetail.raml)

[RAML Spec](https://www.lucidchart.com/documents/view/8de59b44-6450-46a2-ac11-64c8a59cb8e7)

The idea is to provide customer sensitive information privately and in a secure channel to avoid any eavesdropping or masquerading of customer assets. This API requires OAUTH2 authentication information to service their requesting clients. In events of failure, API returns 

> 401 - Bad or expired token 
> 403 - Bad oauth request (wrong consumer key, bad nonce, expired timestamp..}.

The code for implementation of authentication is taken from, [raml.org/raml-1.0](https://raml.org/developers/whats-new-raml-10). This API  allows below methods: 

> get

> post

> put

> delete

> patch/trace/connection: deemed invalid requests and return, 405 - A request method is not supported for the requested resource.

**Header Details**
> [hasHeader] - The header name, defined as trait for re-using in GET, POST, PUT, DELETE methods. 
> Authorization: OAUTH2 authentication base 64 encoded string

> Tenant-Id: Tenant id for multi-tenant environments

> Content-type: json

> x-ratelimit-limit: the rate limit ceiling for that given endpoint. Each client is provided a 5 min window

> x-ratelimit-remaining: the number of requests left for the 5 minute window

> x-ratelimit-reset: the remaining window before the rate limit resets, in UTC epoch seconds

> User-Agent: 
Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 6.1; Win64; x64; rv:47.0)Gecko/20100101 Firefox/47.0
Mozilla/5.0 (X11; Linux x86_64) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko)                   
Chrome/51.0.2704.103 Safari/537.36; Mozilla/5.0 (X11; Linux x86_64) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/51.0.2704.103 Safari/537.36; Mozilla/5.0 (X11; Linux x86_64) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko)
Chrome/51.0.2704.106 Safari/537.36 OPR/38.0.2220.41
Mozilla/5.0 (iPhone; CPU iPhone OS 10_3_1 like Mac OS X) AppleWebKit/603.1.30 (KHTML, like Gecko) Version/10.0 Mobile/14E304 Safari/602.1
Mozilla/5.0 (compatible; MSIE 9.0; Windows Phone OS 7.5; Trident/5.0 EMobile/9.0)

> Accept-Language: en-US;en-UK

> Connection: Keep-Alive

> Accept-Encoding: gzip

## **Use Case 1**

### **List customers**
This use case provides consumer's personal information, products, and order history to the requesting external entities. The API fulfills the client's request through, 
> GET: provides customer, order, product, order information of the shop.
This call is OAUTH2 secure, displays header information through trait: hasHeader. 

The GET method incorporates error handling through network layer,

> 400: The server cannot or will not process the request due to an apparent client error (e.g., malformed request syntax, size too large, invalid request message framing, or deceptive request routing).

> 408: The server timed out waiting for the request. According to HTTP specifications: "The client did not produce a request within the time that the server was prepared to wait. The client MAY repeat the       request without modifications at any later time"

> 423: The resource that is being accessed is locked

> 429: The user has sent too many requests in a given amount of time. Request limit per 5 minutes.
            
> 500: A generic error message, given when an unexpected condition was encountered and no more specific message is suitable.

> 503: The server is currently unavailable (because it is overloaded or down for maintenance). Generally, this is a temporary state.
              
> 504: The server was acting as a gateway or proxy and did not receive a timely response from the upstream server.
            
> 200: Request successful for listing the customer records as collection.

Besides servicing client with regards to customer information, it further provides order, and product details which will be discussed in Use Case 3. Rate limiting is incorporated at the network layer to handle congestion, and service clients in a distributed environment giving clients equal priority in round robin fashion. 

### **Create a new customer**
This use case creates a new customer(s) in a collection.
> POST: creates a customer record with first name, last name, and address
This call is OAUTH2 secure, displays header information through trait: hasHeader. 

The POST method incorporates error handling through network layer,

> 400: The server cannot or will not process the request due to an apparent client error (e.g., malformed request syntax, size too large, invalid request message framing, or deceptive request routing).

> 408: The server timed out waiting for the request. According to HTTP specifications: "The client did not produce a request within the time that the server was prepared to wait. The client MAY repeat the       request without modifications at any later time"

> 423: The resource that is being accessed is locked

> 429: The user has sent too many requests in a given amount of time. Request limit per 5 minutes.
            
> 500: A generic error message, given when an unexpected condition was encountered and no more specific message is suitable.

> 503: The server is currently unavailable (because it is overloaded or down for maintenance). Generally, this is a temporary state.
              
> 504: The server was acting as a gateway or proxy and did not receive a timely response from the upstream server.
            
> 201: Request successful for creating a new list of customer(s) in a collection.

Rate limiting is incorporated at the network layer to handle congestion, and service clients in a distributed environment giving clients equal priority in round robin fashion. 

### **Update a customer**
This use case fetches the customer id from the client and updates a customer information partially/completely in the collection. 

> PUT: updates a customer record with first name, last name, and address
This call is OAUTH2 secure, displays header information through trait: hasHeader. 

The PUT method incorporates error handling through network layer,

> 400: The server cannot or will not process the request due to an apparent client error (e.g., malformed request syntax, size too large, invalid request message framing, or deceptive request routing).

> 408: The server timed out waiting for the request. According to HTTP specifications: "The client did not produce a request within the time that the server was prepared to wait. The client MAY repeat the       request without modifications at any later time".

> 422: The request was well-formed but was unable to be followed due to semantic errors. 

> 423: The resource that is being accessed is locked.

> 429: The user has sent too many requests in a given amount of time. Request limit per 5 minutes.
            
> 500: A generic error message, given when an unexpected condition was encountered and no more specific message is suitable.

> 503: The server is currently unavailable (because it is overloaded or down for maintenance). Generally, this is a temporary state.
              
> 504: The server was acting as a gateway or proxy and did not receive a timely response from the upstream server.
            
> 200: Request successful for updating customer(s) in the collection.

Rate limiting is incorporated at the network layer to handle congestion, and service clients in a distributed environment giving clients equal priority in round robin fashion. 

### **Delete a customer**
This use case fetches the customer id from the client and deletes a customer record from the collection.

> DELETE: delete a customer record
This call is OAUTH2 secure, displays header information through trait: hasHeader. 

The PUT method incorporates error handling through network layer,

> 400: The server cannot or will not process the request due to an apparent client error (e.g., malformed request syntax, size too large, invalid request message framing, or deceptive request routing).

> 408: The server timed out waiting for the request. According to HTTP specifications: "The client did not produce a request within the time that the server was prepared to wait. The client MAY repeat the       request without modifications at any later time".

> 423: The resource that is being accessed is locked.

> 429: The user has sent too many requests in a given amount of time. Request limit per 5 minutes.
            
> 500: A generic error message, given when an unexpected condition was encountered and no more specific message is suitable.

> 503: The server is currently unavailable (because it is overloaded or down for maintenance). Generally, this is a temporary state.
              
> 504: The server was acting as a gateway or proxy and did not receive a timely response from the upstream server.
            
> 204: Request successful for deleting customer(s) from the collection.

Rate limiting is incorporated at the network layer to handle congestion, and service clients in a distributed environment giving clients equal priority in round robin fashion. 

## **Use Case 2**
This use case fulfills the requests from mobile applications. The RAML spec is agnostic to web and mobile applications. A careful consideration is made to incorporate error handling at the network layer to fulfill mobile app requests due to performance constraints. The following items listed below are carefully considered to fulfill this use case. 

> HTTP Error codes [w3.org/Protocols](https://www.w3.org/Protocols/rfc2616/rfc2616-sec10.html)

> HTTP Header [w3.org/Protocols/HTTP](https://www.w3.org/Protocols/HTTP/HTRESP.html)

After detailed analysis, below header information is added.

### **UserAgent**
The header information contains information that allows the network protocol peers to identify the application type, operating system, software vendor or software version of the requesting software user agent.  

UserAgent information server will be able to fulfill clients providing below info:

  > Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 6.1; Win64; x64; rv:47.0)Gecko/20100101 Firefox/47.0

  > Mozilla/5.0 (X11; Linux x86_64) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko)   

  > Chrome/51.0.2704.103 Safari/537.36; Mozilla/5.0 (X11; Linux x86_64) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) 

  > Chrome/51.0.2704.103 Safari/537.36; Mozilla/5.0 (X11; Linux x86_64) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko)

  > Chrome/51.0.2704.106 Safari/537.36 OPR/38.0.2220.41

  > Mozilla/5.0 (iPhone; CPU iPhone OS 10_3_1 like Mac OS X) AppleWebKit/603.1.30 (KHTML, like Gecko)
  Version/10.0 Mobile/14E304 Safari/602.1

  > Mozilla/5.0 (compatible; MSIE 9.0; Windows Phone OS 7.5; Trident/5.0 EMobile/9.0)

### **Connection: Keep-Alive**
The Connection general header controls whether or not the network connection stays open after the current transaction finishes. If the value sent is keep-alive, the connection is persistent and not closed, allowing for subsequent requests to the same client. However, this is supported only within network using HTTP 1.1 standard. 

The connection between server and client will not expire once a 3 way handshake is established between the two entities making the connection persistent. 

## **Use Case 3**
This use case fulfills the further requirement of extending the API to products and orders. Shop is the parent RAML which uses libraries customer, order, product, and order details as collections. This design pattern was adopted to incorporate a basic data modelling mechanism which might be implemented on the backend system. 

- A shop service is generated whenever customer invokes a shopping basket and can exist without Customer/order/product/order micro-services.

- A customer micro-service has a many to one relationship with shop. Every customer is attached with shopping id.

- A order micro-service has a many to one relationship with shop. Every order is attached with shopping id.

- A product micro-service has a many to one relationship with shop. Every product is attached with shopping id. 

- A order details micro-service has a many to one relationship with shop, customer, order, and product services. This service stores the purchasing history of a customer.

[RAML Spec](https://www.lucidchart.com/documents/view/8de59b44-6450-46a2-ac11-64c8a59cb8e7)

## **Design Considerations**

- Security - Incorporation of oauth2 which is a clean separation of roles between the server responsible for handling OAuth requests and the server handling user authorization. 
- Re-usability - The idea of reusability is a fundamental principle followed while designing Shop RAML spec. I have used `collection` `resourceTypes:` `traits` `uses` to incorporate this feature. 
- Modularity - Modules: shop, customer, order, product, and order details are independent in nature which promotes less coupling and high cohension. 
- Standard practices of RAML - Use of inheritance through `uses` `collections` and promote re-usabiliy through `traits` `resourceTypes`
- Performance - `Connection:Keep-Alive` ensures the HTTP connection is persistent once a 3 way handshake is established with the server and the servicing client. HTTP/1.1 is being used at network layer which keeps the connection persistent, improves connection speeds with time and bandwidth, allows clients to send multiple requests before waiting for response and sends data explicitly to its servicing client.  
- Error handling - Extensive use of error handling in network layer to cover all the possible edge cases. However, the API does not cover data related exceptions, and errors and expects them to be handled by the application and presentation layer. 
- Data quality - This is not considered in this API as it is more of implementation detail and should be added in the back-end and front-end systems. Though data semantics is being checked with error code `422`

## **Reference**

1. Tools used - Github Desktop, Atom with API Workbench, pros.io, LucidChart
2. RAML 1.0 - [apiworkbench.com/docs/](http://apiworkbench.com/docs/)
3. HTTP error codes and header info - 
> [w3.org/Protocols/HTTP](https://www.w3.org/Protocols/HTTP/HTRESP.html)

> [w3.org/Protocols](https://www.w3.org/Protocols/rfc2616/rfc2616-sec10.html)

> [wikipedia/](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_HTTP_status_codes)
